## Reading

Weekly average pages of required reading: 180-250

This honours module is by no means an easy one. The fact that the module is on East Asian history, an area which students may have very little familiarity with, but not a sub-honours survey module, means that students should be prepared to take the initiative to read around the assigned materials and delve into the further reading in order to get a better understanding of the material.

A work load of fifteen to eighteen hours a week (some weeks you may need a few more, some weeks less) outside of seminar is expected. Of this, you should expect your weekly preparation for class in terms of reading to be 7-12 hours in all weeks except the consolidation week and pair writing week, together with 5-8 hours of work on your assignments and research, especially for the long essay. I urge you to spread the load of your work on assignments across the weeks, to prevent stress towards the end of the semester.

Your weekly reading will usually consist of 150-250 pages of required reading, plus some reading that you should select from the further reading, or other supplementary reading chosen by yourself to address content you may have trouble understanding or to boost your knowledge if it is related to your long essay research. Thus, working on an estimate of 250 pages a week total is a safe bet, or, at roughly 30 pages an hour (taking some limited notes), about 8.5 hours.

In most, but not all weeks, your reading is divided between required readings (primary and secondary) which all students do in common, and elective readings (which you should choose one category from). When there are elective reading categories, you should do any reading handouts focused on these. When there are no elective reading categories, you may prepare a handout on any of the assigned secondary readings. 

It is not wise to do your reading in a single sitting, as your concentration will fade, so I suggest you split the readings into two or three, and read them across several days. Give yourself more time for the primary sources vs the secondary sources relative to their length to allow you to pay especially close attention to language and detail in the former. I would recommend that you try to "timebox" the readings, giving yourself a fixed period of time for any given reading and, if it looks unlikely that you will have time to read something carefully, skim it with general notes on the main arguments, events, and issues, as necessary.  This is especially useful in weeks when you need to limit your reading preparation time in order to work more on your research for the long essay.

You may find the readings as ebooks, on short loan in the library or in some cases in scanned versions or in digital databases online. We won't be relying on a Talis online list this semester. A few readings will be available on our Microsoft Team.

## Sleep

One of the most significant variables impacting your performance in this module is the amount of sleep you get. If you do not manage to get eight hours of sleep opportunity each night, there are serious consequences for your health. Your attention and cognitive ability will be impaired significantly. Your ability to problem-solve, think creatively, and form memories is measurably decreased both the following day, and in the days to come. This has been well-established in the scientific literature. Cramming for examinations by reducing your sleep has been clearly shown to be counterproductive. Even obtaining 6 hours (an amount many people falsely believe to be sufficient) is universally harmful to your health and mental abilities. The short-term and long-term harm to your body and mind is compounded with multiple days of six hours of sleep (or even less). The permanent negative health consequences (life expectancy, mental health, chance of disease) of frequently getting less than a full night of sleep are also very well established. When missing out on sleep happens unavoidably, naps have been shown to significantly boost performance in mentally demanding tasks. There is unfortunately a widespread academic (and work) culture of pride in getting by sleeping less than eight hours, which I can only hope you will attempt to resist. If you wish to learn more about the recent scientific studies on short- and long-term health consequences of anything less than an eight hour sleep opportunity, consider reading *Why We Sleep: The New Science of Sleep and Dreams* by Matthew Walker (2017).
